What would you think, and how would you feel if I showed up to give this talk but had done nothing to prepare what to say to you?
I had not bothered to study the outline I was given, could not remember the theme, had no idea what the main points are,
and would have to guess at what scriptures to use to support them. And then as I spoke, I would ramble in coherently and make a very bad impression.
I know how I would feel, I would be a nervous wreck, and you would wonder why I did not think enough of you to put all the time and effort
that was necessary into preparing the talk so that you could get the most benefit from it.
Can you see where I'm going with this? Could the same things be said if you engaged in the ministry without first preparing what to say?
You did not review the sample conversations that had been provided, could not think of how to start a conversation,
and did not know what scripture to share. How nervous would you be, and what would the householder think of you?
It would likely be a very short, uncomfortable conversation, and the other person may not care to have you call again.
We should take some time to prepare well before we preach. Why?
Because we have the best message ever, the good news of peace to share with people, and we should do our best so that they will want to listen to what we have to say.
Jesus helped his disciples to prepare for the ministry. Luke chapter 10 reports that before sending out 70 disciples to preach,
he shared with them a pleasant way to greet each householder, told them what to talk about, the kingdom of God,
and he told them how to respond to the varied reactions they would get in their territory.
As a result, because the disciples were fully prepared for the ministry, they enjoyed some thrilling experiences.
When we are prepared, we are more poised, enthusiastic, and can truly enjoy the ministry.
As you watch the following video, notice the good results of preparing well.
We made some good changes, but we weren't done.
I asked Yuri what she planned to talk about.
That started the usual scramble, and we got it, the sample conversation.
That'll do, but for that to work, I had to remember the scripture.
We were both a little forgetful that morning.
Yeah, we needed to prepare better.
We'd been relying on our experience and not enough on Jehovah, so first we prepared our hearts,
then we prepared our minds and found new ways to use our preaching tools,
even a little preparation for initial calls.
And our return visits went a long way.
The husband said, yeah, we needed to prepare better.
Have you ever thought that about your ministry?
Like the couple in the video, we can first prepare our heart and our mind,
and then see how best to use our preaching tools.
Our goal should be the same as that of the Apostle Paul.
At 1 Corinthians 9, verse 23, he wrote that he wanted to do all things for the sake of the good news
in order to share it with others.
So let's think about some specific things we can do to prepare well,
beginning with what we can say on the initial call,
whether that is done in person or over the telephone.
Each issue of the Christian life and ministry meeting workbook provides us with sample conversations
and give us some helpful ideas.
Of course, you may modify the samples or use something entirely different.
Perhaps a subject from a previous month or a different scripture would have wider appeal in your territory.
Your opening words may be the most important part of the presentation, so think it through.
If the introduction does not arouse interest, the other person may terminate the conversation
before we can give a witness.
We will be more effective if we carefully prepare the first sentence or two
that we will say after giving a customary greeting.
We might say, many people are concerned about
or I would like to get your opinion on
or say something else.
Then pick a topic that is of local interest
and ask a wellward viewpoint question that will draw the person into the conversation.
Now, what about preparing for return visits?
That actually begins on the initial call
by leaving a question for the person to think about until you call again.
That is how the sample initial calls and return visits are set up in the median workbook.
By leaving a thought-provoking question at the end of every visit
we can keep the chain of conversations going as long as possible.
We can illustrate it this way.
Imagine a freight train with an engine at the front, a caboose of the rear,
and many cars in between.
What keeps all those cars moving together down the train track?
There is a device called a coupler at the back of each train car
that latches onto the coupler at the front of the car behind it.
By being coupled or linked together,
the cars all run as a unit along the track.
So the question that we leave with a householder at the end of one visit
is what we can latch onto at the beginning of our next visit
so that we can keep the train of thought going from one conversation to the next.
For example,
on the initial call you could ask,
why is there so much suffering in the world?
After discussing that, raise the question,
how does God feel about our suffering?
But don't answer the question until your next visit.
After answering that question on the first return visit,
leave the person with this question,
what will God do to end our suffering
to be discussed on your next visit?
It is also important to have an objective in mind for each return visit.
Before making the call,
think about what you want to accomplish on that call.
If you raise a question,
the last time your objective will surely include answering that question from the Bible.
Of course, the ultimate objective is to try to start a Bible study
in the enjoy life forever brochure.
Now, what about preparing for the Bible studies that we conduct?
Even if we know the material very well,
we should prepare for each study session with our student in mind.
That means thinking about and anticipating the views and needs of that individual.
What points might he struggle to understand or accept?
It also means getting familiar with the lesson to be covered in our interactive Bible course.
Read the lesson carefully.
Look up the read scriptures to see how they apply.
Watch the videos that will be shown during the lesson
and review the items in the Explore section
so that you will know which of those will be especially helpful to your student.
Then you will be well prepared to conduct the study.
Since it is God who makes the seed of truth grow in a person's heart,
we should ask for Jehovah's blessing on our preparation for the study
so that we can best help the student spiritually.
And we will be more effective in our ministry if we stay up to date with the latest material and features
found on JW.org and in JW Library.
So learn how to navigate the website and the app.
Two very helpful features on the website
are Bible questions answered under the Bible Teachings tab
and frequently asked questions under the About Us tab.
They can also be found on the app under Article Series.
The Apostle Paul described himself at 1 Corinthians 310 as a skilled master builder.
That is because he was engaging in a spiritual construction work
to build Christian disciples.
And we are doing the same sort of work when we engage in the ministry.
But to build effectively, we must learn to use our tools well.
We especially need to develop skill in using our principal tool, God's Word,
as well as learn how to make effective use of the publications in our teaching toolbox.
A builder who prepares before starting to work avoids mistakes and frustration.
Remember what the brother said at the end of the video?
Even a little preparation goes a long way.
And that is what will help you to do your best in the ministry.
Just as Paul recommended at 2 Timothy 2 verse 15,
please follow along in your Bible, if you will.
It's 2 Timothy 2 verse 15.
Do your utmost to present yourself approved to God,
a workman with nothing to be ashamed of, handling the word of the truth, a right.
Then you will experience great joy in the spiritual building work that is taking place now
because you will be ready and well prepared to share the good news of peace.
Brother Anthony Morris, a member of the governing body,
will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Are you ready to share the good news of peace?
Take the initiative.